Why cryptocurrencies?

For a short novella: 17 500 - 40 000 words, goal: 20 000

- [ ] Intro
- [ ] Properties
    - [ ] Properties of Money, Sound Money
    - [ ] Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash
- [ ] Better currency
    - [ ] India voids 500 and 1000 rupee bills (control your own money)
    - [ ] The charity EatBCH feeds Venezuelans (send to inaccessible locations)
    - [ ] Protection against hyperinflation in Venezuela
    - [ ] (move money easier and safer across borders)
    - [ ] Personal Swiss bank account (for everyone not just the ultra rich)
- [ ] Better digital payments
    - [ ] Donations to WikiLeaks (permissionless)
    - [ ] Payments to gray area businesses (permissionless)
    - [ ] Banking the unbanked (permissionless)
    - [ ] Safer and cheaper for merchants (avoid charge back fraud, lower fees)
    - [ ] Darknet markets (trustless, permissionless)
- [ ] Looking to the future
    - [ ] New asset class (weak correlation with other)
    - [ ] Tokens
    - [ ] Disconnect Money and State
- [ ] Auxiliary blockchain use
    - [ ] Uncensorable twitter
    - [ ] Provably fair gambling
    - [ ] Voting

0. Read this: http://journal.stuffwithstuff.com/2014/04/22/zero-to-95688-how-i-wrote-game-programming-patterns/
1. Setup a mailing list (try out MailChimp?)
2. Reorganize home page and setup a section for the book/articles
3. Decide on basic outline of the whole book, which points should be made etc.
4. Write the first properties outline, draft 1-3 & illustrations
5. Goto 4 until all chapters are done

On cash:
https://www.tbray.org/ongoing/When/201x/2018/10/11/On-Cash

= Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System =

Title of the Bitcoin whitepaper.

1. Permissionless
2. Uncensorable (?)

== Sound Money ==

== Banking the unbanked ==

== Donations ==

PayPal froze donations to wikileaks.

== Gray area businesses ==

Marijuana, porn, escort services and some gambling platforms

== Accept digial payments irreversible ==

Credit card charge back fraud is a big problem for merchants.

== Faster and cheaper ==

PayPal, VISA and western union charge higher fees.

Fees aren't related to how much money you send but how many outputs you use.

0-conf can be used for certain transactions giving a few seconds confirmation.
VISA allows chargebacks up to 90 days while for example Bitcoin settles in 10 or 60 minutes depending on your risk profile.

== Easier to move and store ==

1. Send to unreachable countries
2. Safe encrypted storage from governments or thieves
3. Cross border with your wealth

= Personal Swiss Bank Account  =

The funny thing is swiss bank accounts have stopped being anonymous. Instead offshore banks are used. Exclusively used by the ultra rich to avoid taxes and for other benefits.

Cryptocurrencies can give an anonymous swiss bank account to everyone, not just the ultra rich, right in your pocket.

= Provably fair gambling =

Trustlessly throw a coin (or a dice etc).

= Decentralized voting =

Give out unique tokens.

With them it's possible to audit:
1. Correct number of votes
2. Your vote was counted correctly
3. Votes were counted properly

= Uncensorable media =

Problem: We want to be able to delete things.

= Require multiple signatures before spend =

N of M before funds are allowed to be spent.
Could be utilized when splitting up heritage for example.

= A new asset class (?) =

Not correlated against other asset classes makes for a potential portfolia candidate.

Store of value, but currently too volatile.

= Disconnect Money and State =

This is arguably the biggest potential change cryptocurrencies can introduce.

Similar to how the state separated from the church it is now possible to have a global currency without a state being able to print money whenever they want. The effects would be massive.

For example the US debt is so large it's not reasonable to expect it ever to be repaid.
The last big financial crisis was caused by banks giving out bad loans, loans that weren't reasonable to give out and which couldn't be repaid. The inability for the state to print money to rescue the banks it could force the banks to answer for their mistakes instead of being rescued and then continue as if nothing special happened.

This is what Satoshi has to say: (...)


